>>Day 4 is the day of the heart.
Yeah.
It's working.
All right.
[APPLAUSE]
OK.
Here we go.
The day of the heart.
Finally, we made it.
This is day 4.
And I really like how
straight and-- all these rows
are perfect.
But we've got to move
all the chairs-- [LAUGHS]
--in a minute, in just a second.
We're going to
begin with a dance.
It's called a Sufi dance.
And it's about a
700-year-old dance.
But it's not really a dance.
It's a meditation.
I mean, you dance
and you're moving,
but it's a moving
meditation is what it is.
And the Sufis did this
every single morning
in their khanqahs.
A khanqah is like a
monastery or an ashram.
And every morning,
they would do this,
because it was the essence of
what they were trying to learn.
And by doing it every
morning, it changes you.
It is a very powerful thing.
And so in a moment,
we'll do that.
And that takes a while.
By the time you get
started and finish,
it makes almost an hour.
After that, we will begin.
But let's just do this.
Let's just start here.
The reason I do this is that
it is so powerful putting you
in your heart.
And a lot of people end up
crying a lot, can't help it,
especially if you're a crier.
If you are a crier, just fill
your pockets with Kleenex,
because you know
it's going to happen.
And then we'll pass them around.
And it's OK.
So I don't know if we can
get 127 people in a circle.
I'm going to try it.
And if it doesn't
work, then I'm going
to have to go to two circles.
But first, we'll try that
and see how it works.
So you can just take the chairs
and put them up here, I think.
Just stack them.
Start stacking them.
Use all the space you can.
Just see that there's about
6 feet all the way around.
That's all we need.
OK.
Here's what we're going to do.
This is faster if I just do it,
because I've tried it before.
And if you guys do it,
it takes twice as long.
>>Dance for us.
>>I'm going to just
say you're number one.
You're number two.
And number two, come
into the inner circle
and face him that way.
So you're one.
And you're two.
And you're one.
And one.
And two.
One and two.
OK.
We are even again.
We're a very even group.
OK.
Now try to space yourselves
so that you have room.
It goes left to right.
Does everybody have a partner?
Say yes.
>>Yes.
[LAUGHS]
>>OK.
All right.
I know you guys like each other.
But I need your
attention up here.
OK.
Now here's the way
it's going to work.
Is Diane here?
>>I am.
>>Yeah.
Come here so I can
show everybody.
And I hope everybody can see.
OK.
This is how it begins.
You're going to be
with one person here.
And you're going to be
hugging this person.
This is the very end.
We're going from the
end to the beginning.
And you're hugging this person.
And you're going to hear
these bells go ding.
And it then means
that you have to break
your hug, which is really
hard, because-- you'll
understand a little.
But you get so close to
these people that it's hard.
So anyway, you have
to break the hug.
You bow to them.
And you take a step to the left.
And now you have a
brand new person.
OK?
When you meet that
person, you bow to them.
You honor the divine
light within them.
And then you give
them your right hand
and let them place it
over their heart chakra.
And then you begin to
look into their eyes.
And I can't talk if I'm
looking into your eyes.
>>Let's do it this way, because
there are others [INAUDIBLE].
>>OK.
So you bow.
You give them your right
hand and let them place it
over their heart chakra.
And then you begin to
look into their eyes.
And it's really the
same thing that you
did on the first day, where you
look into the person's eyes.
And you look past
their personality.
And you look for that sacred
being that is within them.
Only now you're going to be
looking through many people.
And it does something
entirely different.
It's amazing what
happens in this.
And so you have 60 seconds.
I'm actually timing it
with a little clock.
So you don't have
to think about that.
And in those 60 seconds, you
just find that sacred place
within them.
And what's so interesting
is that you'll
realize that as you go
from person to person,
it's always the same.
It's not a different energy.
It's the same exact
energy in everyone.
It's a sacred place.
And so at the end of
60 seconds, you're
going to sing them a song.
And the words to the song
are, "You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you."
But you're not opening to the
ego or to the personality.
You're opening your heart to
that sacred being within them.
OK?
It's really different than--
it's not just a person.
You're really going
straight to the source.
And so you sing them a
song, "You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you."
And it goes like this.
(SINGING) You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you.
And you have their
hand on your heart
and your hand on their heart.
And so what you do is
when you open your heart,
you feel your love go down
your arm and into their heart.
And you feel their love
come back from them to you.
And you feel this connection.
We hold that for 20 seconds.
Who cares?
You're just doing
it for a little bit.
And you feel that connection.
And then after
another 20 seconds--
it's a very simple thing--
and then hug that person.
They'll just say, hug.
And you just give them a hug.
And that's also for 20 seconds.
And then after that,
you'll hear the bells.
And you have to break the hug.
It's really hard to
break this hug sometimes.
Because you've just connected
with a sacred being.
And you can feel it.
Where's the Kleenex?
Diane will distribute this.
You're going to have
one or two boxes?
If you know you're going to
cry, just go ahead and do it.
If you think you even
might want to cry, do it.
When you need it, you need it.
Now, this is important.
This was traditionally always
done in absolute silence.
It's a meditation.
It's actually in
the physical heart.
It's inside the physical heart.
The chakra is connected
directly to it.
There's a direct relationship
between the heart chakra
and the tiny space in the heart.
But it is not exactly the same.
We're going to sing the song.
So you know it.
So I'll sing it one more time.
And then you come after that.
(SINGING) You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you.
OK.
Let's all do it.
>>(SINGING) You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you.
>>You just sing it one time.
That's all.
And then you actually
feel the love go down.
And you feel it come back.
And I'll lead you through it
for at least two or three times.
And then after
that, you'll get it.
You'll know what to do.
OK.
Now turn around.
Here we go.
Go ahead and start the music.
OK.
Close your eyes first.
And remember your Merkaba
and the flow of energy
coming into your heart chakra.
Remember the angel
from the first day.
Feel her or him.
Feel that angel within
you and all around you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
OK.
Open your eyes.
Bow to your partner, honoring
the divine light within them.
And hand them your right hand.
And let them place
it over your heart.
And now look into their eyes and
find that sacred and holy place
within them.
And the song.
>>(SINGING) You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BELL RINGING]
>>I'm sorry, but you
have to break the hug.
You have to move. [LAUGHS]
The song.
>>(SINGING) You are my beloved.
I open my heart to you.
[BELL RINGING]
>>This is the day of the heart.
And we're going to
talk a little bit.
And then eventually,
all of this is
going to lead into a
meditation toward the end
of the day, where we actually
go into the sacred space
of our heart.
Could I see how many people
feel that they know how
and they've been into their
sacred space of their heart?
It's approximately
51 out of 127.
So we've got a lot of work.
We probably will get most people
before the end of the day.
And there will be
a few of you that
still won't be able to get in.
I don't want to program now.
But there will
probably be a few.
And it's OK.
A lot of times when
you get home and you're
in the safety of your own place
and you can repeat what's done,
then you find you can do it.
But there is a thing which
is the emotional trauma.
And I'll just talk about
that just for a second.
If you can't get
in, most often, it's
because you've had an emotional
trauma centered around love
that was so deep that when
you begin to move back
into the heart, it either
hurts or it feels cold
or it's something that
makes you back away.
And what I've discovered
is if you're brave enough
and if you can go
through it, you're
fine once you get in there.
Everything's OK.
But if you can't,
and you keep trying
and you still have
that same feeling,
the only thing that you can
do is to go through therapy
and find out what that was
and to release that pain.
Then it's easy.
But there is
another thing, which
is not having to do
with trauma at all,
but having to do with-- there's
a specific vibration that
must be within you.
And we'll talk about this later.
It has to do with
the way that you
connect with the outer reality.
And you have to do this
in a certain kind of way.
And if you don't, you're
wasting your time.
But we will clearly
explain what it
is, what you have to do to
get that vibration within you.
But so often, people
hear it, they do it here.
And then they go home.
And they didn't think
it was important.
And they just forget it.
But when I get to that point,
I'll be very clear on that.
Because it is another
one of the reasons why
if you don't follow one of the
instructions, there's nothing
you can do.
It doesn't matter what
you do, you can't get in.
But we'll work with that
when we get to there.
But in your physical heart,
there is a tiny, little place.
It's so small that I don't know
if you can actually see it,
it's so little.
And science has been
trying to find it,
especially HeartMath
at Stanford has been
spending years working on this.
They know the vibration.
They actually have an
instrument that you can buy.
You push your finger
on the button.
And if you're in your
heart, it'll say so.
And if you're not-- it gives you
a red light or a green light.
And it tells you if
you're in or not.
It's a very specific frequency.
It's actually more
than a frequency.
It's a waveform.
And it's a very
beautiful waveform
when you see it on a screen.
And so science is
slowly getting there.
They've never been
able to figure out--
and they know it's
true-- they've never
been able to figure out how it's
related to the pineal gland.
There's a relationship
between this and the heart.
And they know that for sure
because of their experiments.
But they have never been
able to figure out--
I haven't talked to them
for two or three years.
So I don't know for sure.
But they've never been able
to figure out what it is.
And they've checked every single
possible electrical connection
within the body, and
they can't find it.
The reason, I believe, is
because it's not in the body.
It's external to the body.
And we'll explain that,
too, once we understand
what we're having to say.
There's a lot of information
around the heart that
is kind of important to know.
You don't have to
know it to do this,
especially if you're entering
the heart from a female way.
If you do it from a female
way, you just do it.
You just do it.
But if you're doing
it from a male way,
you've got to know the doorway.
And you've got to know
exactly how to get in there.
It's male, right?
You have to know
the instructions.
So we will talk to the male way.
But there is the female way.
I would love to have my
wife come here today.
I don't know if she will or not.
I never know about her.
She is her own woman.
But she doesn't use any
of the stuff that I do.
It's all imagery.
That's what she uses.
There has been almost nothing
written about this in history.
It's all been oral and oral
traditions all over the world.
As far as I know,
there's only been--
let me see, two-- three books
written-- well, if you count
my book, I guess four books.
But without that, there's only
been three books written ever
about this sacred space.
It's hard to say
what's the oldest one.
Probably the oldest
one is with the Torah.
Many Jews don't
know that there's
a separate book to the Torah.
And it's a little, tiny book.
And it's named the secret
cavern, or cave, of the heart.
And I think at least
half or more of the Jews
don't know it exists.
Because it's bound separately
in this little, tiny thing.
And I would love to get one
of those and understand it.
I've tried.
I've talked to two or three
rabbis-- yeah, that there.
It's real.
Can I have a copy?
Sure, of course.
But I never get it.
People say, oh, yeah,
I've got one at home.
Can I have it?
Sure, I'll give you one.
But I never get it.
And it's just because
it's too sacred.
And I understand.
It's OK.
But there's another one in
India called the Upanishads.
And that book I
remember a long time
ago in the '60s, early '60s,
when I became interested
in spirituality, I started
reading spiritual books.
And I ended up reading every
single book in this store
that I was in.
And I began to realize they
were all saying the same thing.
It's the same thing
with different slants.
But it's all the same thing
over and over and over and over.
But when I came to the
Upanishads, I read that.
And I remember reading it and
going-- I got all through it.
And I put it down and
just kind of looked at it
and went, what is that?
It didn't fit into
anything else.
There was nothing
else that approached
or that it was similar to.
And I really didn't know
what they were talking about.
I didn't know till
many, many, many years
later, where I had
direct experience myself.
And then when I reread
that book many years later,
it makes perfect sense.
It's just 108 people--
just like you and me,
no different, human
beings-- who found
their way into
their heart and then
wrote down their experience.
And so it's 108 people saying,
this is what happened to me,
this is what happened to me.
And there's a lot
of similarities
running through it.
So after you've
been into the heart
and you really become more
familiar to it, read that book.
And it'll make total sense.
Because it'll be
the same experiences
that you're having, only
they might have ones
you haven't had yet.
Or this this one might
have ones you have had.
But you'll see.
It's kind of an important
book on the subject.
There was a modern day book that
was written about 20 years ago
out of New Zealand.
And it's from the Waitaha tribe.
They are one of the oldest
tribes in the world.
They go back about
roughly 160,000 years.
And they remember going
back 65,000 years.
I am Waitaha now.
I've been through
all the ceremonies.
And they-- it takes a long time.
It takes three days just to
go through the ceremonies.
I'm now legally a Waitaha.
So I can talk
about these things.
[CHUCKLES]
And they can remember
their lineage
going back 65,000 years,
which was at the end point
when Lemuria sank.
They came from Lemuria.
And in their
ceremonies, the elders
can repeat their entire
names of all their lineage.
It takes days, and
especially since the names
are from here to the wall.
I mean, we have little names.
They have long names.
So they can remember their
mother and their father
and their grandfather
and their grandmother
and their great-grandfather
and their great-grandmother.
And it keeps going
back 65,000 years.
And if you're product in to
some of their sacred temples,
you can see on the walls
all their memories,
if you can read it.
And they talk about how they
used to live in the water.
And they didn't have a spine.
It was all more like cartilage.
They were more like a fish.
And right on the
walls, you can see
they have webbed
hands and webbed feet.
They weren't very tall.
They were probably
maybe only this high.
And they were incredibly
sexual beings.
I mean, their entire focus on
life was on sex, just about.
That was everything to them.
And they had very
interesting relationships
in what they believed sexual
energy was to other tribes
that are farther north, like in
Finland and in the Netherlands
and up in there-- there are
ancient ideas from them that
aren't talked about
in modern day times.
But their relationship
was almost identical.
And they feel a relationship.
They feel this kinship within.
And a lot of the
New Zealanders feel
that they are related somehow.
I don't know what all
that is about exactly.
But they wrote a book called
"The Song of the Waitaha."
And you can't buy it, unless
you're in New Zealand.
Maybe somewhere.
I don't know where.
It's a big, white book, heavy.
And they put in there
their understandings
of the heart and
the dreaming and how
the dreaming becomes real.
And they could change their
world through their dreams.
And to us, dreams
are just dreams.
But what most of us
don't know is that we
have two dreaming bodies.
We have one dreaming
body associated
with our right brain.
And we have another dreaming
body associated with our heart.
The dreaming body from our
right brain is polarized.
In other words, you
can have a good dream,
or you can have a
really bad dream.
You can have nightmares.
But then there are
dreams that are
totally separate and
individual, completely different
dreaming body associated
with the heart, that
never has a negative--
it's not polarized.
So it has no-- you can't have
a bad dream from the heart.
It only makes good dreams.
Or it could make a neutral
dream, but nothing that
would be considered negative.
If you think you're
in your heart
and you're having
a negative image,
you're not in your heart.
You're just in your brain
imagining you're in your heart.
Because it just won't happen.
And so there is
very little that has
been talked about throughout
the world on this subject.
It's always been oral.
And they would tell people.
But they would
never write it down.
It was just considered too
sacred to even write down.
Because as soon as
you write it down,
some people will
misunderstand it.
And there's always problems
in those kind of ways.
That's what I feel, anyway.
So we talked about
the ascension being
just a movement from the
brain back to the heart again.
And really, after
all the study I've
had on this in my whole
life, it's really all it is.
It's that simple.
You can make it complex.
You could say, OK,
ascension is spaceships
coming down and getting
on and they take you
into other dimensions
and all these kinds
of ideas with the Ashtar
Command and on and on and on.
But really, really,
really, it is just
returning back to the
heart, where we fell,
where we came up here.
And we're just going back there.
And once you're
there, that's it.
It's it.
It's really simple.
Even if you're still
completely in your human body
and you're in your
job and you're
doing everything else
like that, ascension
has reached its most
important point as soon
as you return back to the heart.
Because the heart will lead
you through everything else.
But it will bring you back.
If there is a
spaceship involved,
it will come to
you, whatever it is.
But you don't have to
do anything after that.
Once you've found that, all
the rest of it is automatic.
It's easy.
Now, I've received this
information primarily
from indigenous people.
Because they're the only ones
who remember what this is.
The industrial world, regardless
of the color of your skin
or where you're from or
what your religion is,
if you're living
with televisions
and cars and this
industrial world
and you've accepted it
into your life, most of us
have completely
forgotten the heart.
We don't even know we have one.
And where I find the truth
is out in the jungles
and in these high
deserts and places
where there are
indigenous people that
are still living this truth.
It's so amazing, just
like right now-- we
were hugging each
other and everything.
And you were
beginning to feel what
it's like to be in a tribe.
Because in a tribe there's
no-- well, a lot of the tribes
have been corrupted, like the
relationship between the Navajo
and the Hopi here in Arizona.
There's been lots of trauma
that have happened to them.
But when you go out in places
where they've completely
isolated from the world, it's
a different thing altogether.
Once they allow
you into the tribe,
you're just like with
a bunch of children.
They're so easy.
Their hearts just
leap over to you.
And it's beautiful.
We don't get those kind
of experiences very much.
You had a little bit of
it just a few minutes ago.
But just imagine in
your entire world
living like that, where
everybody loves everybody,
and there's hardly
any problems at all--
occasionally, but not much.
And so that's where I found it.
In fact, it was the Kogi
and Arahuacos in Colombia
that really did it for me.
I was beginning to understand
it a little bit before that.
But it wasn't until I
met them that I really
began to understand the nature
of what we were talking about.
I had no idea.
Studying the Merkaba and
sacred geometry and even
the beams of light and all this
other stuff, that's one thing.
But the heart is another world.
It's another totally secret,
other way of existing.
And it's not just love.
It's much, much, much,
much more than that.
And so communicating it
to the industrial world,
it's not easy.
Because you can't make a
straightforward translation.
And there are no
words you can use.
I'm going to try to use a few.
But it all comes
down to experience.
It's experiential.
It's touch.
It's feel.
It's feeling it.
You can't talk about it.
You can talk about it forever.
But it doesn't do anything
until you actually
get into the actual experience
of what the heart is.
>>[INAUDIBLE]
Yeah?
>>When you say that once
you get in your heart,
then it's very easy-- can
you talk more about that?
That once we go there,
ascension can seem complicated.
But once we go there, it's--
>>Well, I am slowly
going to do that.
But I would really like you
to get the experience more
than anything.
And then I probably won't have
to say much for most of you.
But ascension comes down to--
and this is what the Mayans
and the Hopi and the
Kogi and Arahuacos,
all of them are saying, even the
Zulu in Africa and the Waitaha
and the Maori and
the [? Kuna ?]--
I think almost all tribes
will agree with this--
is that it's so simple, it's too
simple for me to tell you right
now.
And so I have to wait
till we have a little bit
more experience.
And then at the right moment,
I will say this really simple
thing to do.
And if you do that, you've
just won the game of life.
You're a totally safe-- you
absolutely will go all the way.
But I can't say it
now, because it's
too-- you won't believe it.
It's too easy.
And so we'll have to go
a little bit further.
I want to talk about darkness.
The pineal gland uses
two eyes to see with.
And your eyes can't see
unless there's light.
You have to have light,
or you can't see.
If it's totally darkness,
you're blind and you can't see.
With your heart, it
is the exact opposite.
The heart requires
darkness to see.
That's kind of a strange thing
when you really think about it.
Light interferes with being
able to see with the heart.
You can learn how to be in
your heart and see in light.
But you have to learn how.
It takes a little bit.
The super psychic kids
all over the world,
they basically do
everything they
can to get rid of the light.
Some of them put tissue
crammed inside of here
and things wrapped around and
everything else like that.
And people think that
they're cheating and looking
underneath and everything,
when, in fact, they're trying
to get it as dark as possible.
Because once they go into total
darkness, then this shuts down.
And then it's very, very
easy to move into the heart,
because it sees with darkness.
So when you enter
into the heart,
it's always black,
just totally black.
And you then have to
ask for the light.
You have to use intention
to get the light.
And as soon as you do, the
darkness becomes a light field.
And you can see in it.
However, the heart isn't quite
as straightforward as this.
In this with the eyes, you
have all kinds of light
that you can see with.
But in the heart, when you ask
for light-- which you must do--
but when you ask for light, it's
hard to say what kind of light
you're going to get back.
It might be daylight.
It might be white, like
this kind of light.
It could be like moonlight.
It could be psychedelic light.
And a lot of people
get that, too,
where just the colors are
incredible and vibrant
and everything.
And the light may come on
anything you can imagine.
It might come on
like a dimmer switch.
You ask for it, and
nothing happens.
And it comes on very,
very, very slow, so
slow that you don't even
realize it's happened.
I remember I had--
several people, actually--
but this one guy, though,
I remember he was going,
light never came on.
And when I started
talking to him, he says,
it just stayed absolutely
black the entire time.
In fact, I kind of
got bored with it.
And there was a
chair sitting there.
So I went over and I
sat down in the chair.
And then I said, wait a minute.
How did you see the chair?
And he went, I don't know.
And that happens all the time.
Sometimes it'll just
come on so slow.
And it might take 15
minutes to come on
and you don't even notice it.
And you're actually
seeing, but you're still
thinking you're in the
darkness when you're not.
And so I've seen
that many times.
And then sometimes
it'll come on.
And then it'll go off.
And then it'll
come back on later.
And it'll come back on.
And it'll do all
kinds of things.
You just have to
ask for the light
and then just accept
whatever happens.
And just go with it.
I don't know.
It's between you and God.
And God will give you
the source of life.
Literally-- well,
it's everywhere--
but the source of
life is very vibrant
and can communicate with you
totally in the sacred space
of the heart.
It's not even easy to do it in
the outer space of the heart.
We'll talk about-- there are
two different spaces of it.
But the inner space of the
heart, God is always there.
Always.
And you can connect
directly with the source.
But we'll get into that.
I'm just sort of opening
the door on all of this.
But this darkness is an
important part of all of it.
Also, the light, when you
receive it through the eyes,
it goes into a brain
that is polarized.
And so your light is coming
from somewhere to somewhere.
And because of that,
you can make a shadow.
But in the heart, it's a
different kind of light.
It's a non-polarized light.
It's not coming from
anywhere, going anywhere.
Everything just is light,
and not the kind of light
that we normally think of.
And so what's interesting is
you cannot throw a shadow inside
of there, because
there's no polarization.
And one of the ways-- it's
not an absolute foolproof way,
because the mind is pretty
tricky, the ego-- but sometimes
I do that.
And it's, am I really-- yep.
No shadows.
The inner space of the heart
can look a lot like this.
But you'll see the difference.
And basically,
everything just is light.
And it just glows.
And so this is the
primary reason why
we've given you the blindfolds.
They're kind of
an essential tool.
Because if you're
sitting here like this,
and even if there's just
like an exit sign in there,
it affects the being able
to shut down the brain
and making it easier
to get into the heart.
But once you've done it,
once you know how to do it
and you go back and
forth a few times,
then you can get to
the place where you're
doing what I'm doing right now,
where I'm totally in the brain,
but not in a way most
people are in their brain.
I'm in my heart.
I'm actually sitting
cross-legged right now
in some sand in a little place.
And that's where my essence is.
But I've learned how to be there
and also look through here.
It took me a while
to do that one.
But we'll slowly get there.
Now, I know I've written--
how many people have not read
the book, Living in the Heart?
One, two, three, four, five.
A few of you.
Well, most of you have
read all this stuff.
And you can go into it.
But basically, I was
led through this.
And I'll just give
you a real quick sense
of the history of this.
Basically, I was meditating
doing the Merkaba meditation
Because I thought that's all
there was in the beginning.
I didn't know there
was more to this.
I didn't have any idea
of all this stuff we're
starting to talk about then.
But I would do the
meditation, which usually
takes about four and a half
minutes for most people,
or five minutes.
And then I would go for
usually a half an hour,
45 minutes longer.
I would just sit in
the energy and feel it.
And one day I was
just sitting there
meditating in the
darkness and just feeling
the flow of energy.
And then, bam, like a light
switch, I was inside of a cave.
And we wrote about
it in the book.
And it was the weirdest feeling,
because I was in my body.
And I couldn't figure
out what happened I
had no idea what had happened.
I just thought I was
having a hallucination,
except that when I would
go up to the walls,
I could touch the walls.
And they just felt
exactly like this.
And I was really,
really confused.
And I remember walking
around and looking at things
and going, what is going on?
What is happening to me?
And then as quickly
as I came-- [SNAPS]
I'm sitting back in my
body meditating again.
I remember getting out
of that thinking, that
was a very weird experience.
And I kind of felt like maybe
some wires got shorted out
in my brain or something.
I didn't know what happened.
And if it had never
happened again,
I'm sure I would have completely
forgotten about it by now.
But then a few days
later, it happened again.
And then it started
happening every single time
I went into my meditation.
I would end up in this cave.
And the angels weren't
saying anything.
They were just
sitting there watching
to see how I'd respond
to this, I think.
Let's see if he has a complete
breakdown or what happens.
[LAUGHTER]
So I figured, well, I'm going
to study while I'm in here.
OK, I'm here all the time.
I've got to figure
out what this is.
And there were-- I
call them photographs.
But they weren't
really photographs.
It's hard to explain
what they are.
They were etched into the wall.
But they really looked real.
But they were 20 of these
photographs of people
on one side of the wall.
And I'd never seen
them in my life.
I didn't know who they were.
And then there was this
little round circle of sand
back there with a lip.
Everything was like one piece.
You could see where
somebody had chipped it out.
But the whole cave
was like one piece.
And this lip came up.
And it was a circle.
And there's this white,
soft, silicon sand in there.
Didn't know what that was.
There was another
thing over here,
which was a big kind of an
opening of about 20 feet or so.
It was real high.
And it had a sheet of
light running down it.
And I couldn't see
into the light.
And I couldn't put my hand
through it or anything.
It wouldn't allow me to.
So I didn't know what that was.
And then at the
farther end, there
was a staircase that spiraled
down to another level.
And later I found out--
the light up in here
was kind of a whitish light--
but when I went down in there,
it turned into a green light.
And then there were
doors, a hallway
with lots of doors and doors.
And then I didn't know
what those things were.
I was so confused.
I had no idea what was going on.
And then slowly-- this
went over many years.
And it wasn't until
I hit the Kogi
that I understood what
had been going on,
really understood what had
been going on all these years.
And they're experts.
They really are.
And they live in caves
almost all the time, too.
That's their whole thing.
It's inside the Earth is
where they do almost all
of their work.
And so that's how
it began for me.
And then when the Kogi did
this thing with me, really,
through the Mayans,
they sent a runner to me
with a little gift.
They just wanted
to say thank you.
And then so the
runner said, this
is from the Kogi
and the Arahuacos
And they're saying thank you.
And I was going--
well, first of all, I'd
never heard of them before.
And so I was saying, this is a
tribe I don't even know about.
So why are they
saying thank you?
Well, the Mamos-- there's
a tribe within a tribe.
Bigger tribe is
about 14,000 people.
The Mamos are about 200 people.
And the outer tribe
looks at the inner tribe
as-- they see them
almost on the same par
as we would see god, in a way.
The Mamos, what they are
is direct manifestations
directly from Mother Earth,
the spirit of the Earth.
They are directly connected.
They call her Aluna.
And they are one with her.
And so the Mamos, they
did things with me
that are considered
normally impossible.
They literally just
would make a sound,
and I would disappear from
one area where I was with them
and reappear somewhere
else in one second.
And if you've never
had this happen to you,
it's pretty unusual.
The feeling is just like--
[POPS MOUTH] All of a sudden,
you're here.
And then-- [POPS MOUTH] You're
on the other side of Sedona
somewhere, or something else.
It changes you.
It has a big effect on you.
It did on me.
It would have on
anyone, I think.
>>Were you in meditation
or [INAUDIBLE]?
>>No, I was not in
meditation at all.
I was just standing there.
They did this quite a few times.
They understand that we're
walking around in a dream
and that it's just
pure consciousness.
And so because they
understand this,
they know how to do things
that-- they understand
the nature of the reality which
we do not understand at all.
And because of that,
they can do anything.
They can change shape.
They can change form.
They can do anything.
So it's pretty amazing.
Anyway, by far, the
indigenous people
have had major impacts on me
in understanding this and being
able to bring it to
you in a coherent way.
But there has also been others.
And the psychic children that
originated out of China, then
went to Mexico and then
South America and then
Bulgaria and Russia,
and they started
showing up all over the
world, these children
have also blown my mind.
And that's all they do, is they
just go into total darkness,
go into their heart.
And in your heart is the Akashic
records of all life everywhere.
We mentioned that before.
But they can read it and see it.
And so they can take any
one of you-- never seen you
before in your life-- and
tell you anything about you.
They can tell you
anything, anything at all,
things you don't even remember.
They can tell you exactly dumb
things, like your bank account
number and precisely how much
money you have in your account
to the penny.
They never make an error, ever.
I've never seen them even
make one mistake ever.
And it's perfect.
And we have that same ability.
We can do that, too.
You can do that, too.
It's going to be part
of the unfoldment
when you remember what the heart
is and your connection to it.
That in there is all knowledge,
all wisdom, everything-- past,
present, and future.
And these children are
able to go in there
and enter into that space
and be able to do this.
And when you see
them do it, it's
hard to believe they
can do this when
you're watching them do it.
But it's true.
It is definitely true.
And there are millions
of these children.
Though most of them are
hidden and very quiet,
there are really a lot of them.
They're different than
the Indigo or the Crystal
kids or these things.
They're totally different.
The Indigo kids, primarily
their connection to each other
is more psychic.
And their connection is
through computers a lot.
Everything that's
unfolding through there
is primarily coming
from the Indigo kids.
But the psychic kids
have the same thing,
only it's internal
instead of external.
They close their eyes,
and they see a screen.
And on that screen is
little screens that
are going around it that are
moving at really high speed.
You've got to really get
into it to slow yourself down
to be able to see those things.
But from there,
just the same way,
they could know
anything from that.
And most of these Indigo
kids are from 1972, forward.
But there were a few
that came in earlier.
I was one.
But there are a
lot of other ones.
Mary Ann Schinfield
was another one.
I met her in 1990.
And she's totally blind.
I mentioned her before.
She has no eyes.
But she can drive cars and read
books and watch television.
And you'd never know,
but she has no eyes.
But her body is-- she
is one who lives--
she's floating around the
solar system all the time.
She's the one I said about
when NASA found her and made
her go along on the satellites
and read the serial number
on this thing.
And I know what she's
doing, pretty much.
And I don't know
how she does this.
But she's interfaced
right in the middle
between the fourth dimension
and third dimension.
If she turns this way, behind
her is the fourth dimension
and in front of her is
the third dimension.
And she's really incredible,
what she can and cannot do.
OK.
>>The Indigo kids and
the super psychic kids,
they are from humanity or from
an extraterrestrial region?
>>There may be
exceptions that come
from humanity that have died
and come back as an Indigo kid.
But almost all of them are from
space-- and not just space,
but other dimensions.
They're from much
higher consciousness.
>>Thank you.
>>And again, this is why
there are so many people here.
This has never happened before.
We've never had 7
billion people on Earth.
They're coming from everywhere.
They want to be here.
I mean, I could go
on and on and on.
I'll tell this story
about Oscar Mendoza,
because it's not in the book.
But I did mention Inge Bardor.
She was one of the
super psychic kids.
Her and my wife
are really close.
They're always
talking all the time.
And she was talking
a couple weeks ago.
Inge is one of the
Mexican super psychic kids
that we did that video on,
Through the Eyes of a Child,
where, before, 600
people in Denver-- she
was blindfolded and
was able to read
with her hands and her feet and
show all these different kinds
of things.
I wanted her to float
like a big, heavy rock
around the room, which
she can do, easily.
And her mentor was there.
And her mother was there.
And they just freaked
out-- you can't
do that, you will not do that.
Because their worry was that
when Inge went back to Mexico,
anybody doing psychic
things like that
are considered evil in Mexico.
And they'll kill you.
And so she was seeing
with her hands and feet.
They weren't too
worried about that.
But they were really concerned
about doing something obvious,
like floating a rock
around the room.
So it never happened.
It's too bad.
But we were at one time--
I mentioned in the book
about these two guys.
And one of them--
she was sitting.
And she was blindfolded.
And she was looking
at the photographs
and telling what was
in the photographs.
Do you guys remember that?
OK.
Well, there was one guy
that came in and said,
I don't believe you.
You're looking underneath here.
And so she had to do this
whole thing to convince him.
And even after she was
reading everything,
he still didn't believe it.
And he was the one that
brought up his driver's license
and handed it up to her,
handed it to her upside
down and backwards.
And she immediately turned
it over, did this whole thing
like that, and read the whole
thing on the driver's license.
That's your driver's license.
And then he said to her,
I still don't believe you.
Tell me something
that only I know.
And remember, that
was the one who
was there with his girlfriend.
And she's really mischievous.
So she goes, OK,
well, what you know
and your girlfriend
doesn't know is that you
have another girlfriend.
And her name is, "da-da-da,"
and something like that.
And he was just
blown away by this.
And so after that,
where there was a break
and he was standing over
by a big plate glass window
looking up at the sky
and he was kind of,
I guess, embarrassed
and not feeling good--
and she knows exactly
what he's feeling
and everything else like that.
And she saw his sadness.
And so she went over to
him and said, you know,
I'm really sorry.
I didn't mean to
hurt you like that.
And he says, oh, that's OK.
And she said to him, I
want to give you a gift.
And he said, OK, what is it?
And she says, you see that
big cloud up in the sky?
There was a big billowing,
white cloud like that.
She goes, I want to show you so
you know for sure, absolutely
for sure that this is real.
And he says, what
are you going to do?
She goes-- [SMACKS LIPS]
--this is a laser gun.
And I'm going to cut
the cloud in half.
And she goes-- [SWOOSH] and
the cloud was cut right in half
in a perfect line like that.
And she goes, cut
it the other way.
[SMACKS TONGUE]
Four sections cut
perfectly in half
with a straight line right
down the middle like that.
And he saw that happen.
That's usually an
illegal thing to do.
But she did it.
And he was instantaneously
transformed.
He went from a skeptic
to an absolute believer.
[LAUGHS]
And he ended up teaching
the flower of life
in South America.
And he became one of the
greatest facilitators down
there, because he knew for
sure what he was talking about
was really real.
And so I figured I'd just
tell you that little story.
So there have been many people
that have led up to this.
And I think we all
have our people that
have led us up to
this moment that
have gotten us to
the place where
we understand what's going on.
It's usually other people or
events that have taken place.
>>You mentioned Oscar Mendoza.
>>Oscar Mendoza,
yeah that's his name.
He's Mexican, too, I think.
But I'm not-- he might not be.
He might be from
Colombia or Venezuela.
I'm not sure.
I don't know, actually.
There's another thing
associated with-- that's
different between the
heart and the body.
And I mentioned
this once before.
But I do want to say
it clearly again.
And that is the emotional body.
You have a different
dream state.
The brain has one
kind of dream state.
The heart has another one.
The brain has one
emotional body.
And everything is always
polarized with the brain.
And so you have emotions that
are love/hate relationships
of everything.
And then you have a completely
different emotional body
in the heart.
And I mentioned.
But when you talk about
unconditional love,
that's the only place where
there's unconditional love.
There's never, ever
unconditional love
in the brain.
All you've got to do
is just find the thing
that really offends
the brain or the ego,
and that personal will stop
their love for someone.
It really is conditional
from the brain.
About the only time that
human beings have ever felt
unconditional love from the
heart, at least one instant
that I can think of--
and many women have
felt this-- is right
immediately after birth,
the baby comes out.
The cord is still connected.
And the baby is
sucking on the breast.
And the mommy looks
down at the baby.
And at that moment, she's
loving the baby from her heart.
She would die for
that baby right now.
I mean, maybe not all
women, but most women.
And there's a short time when
they switch from the brain
to the heart.
And at that moment, it's
a different kind of love
they're feeling than
what they normally feel.
It's that powerful,
unconditional love
from the heart.
And that is about the only--
there aren't too many ways.
It's usually a life
and death situation.
It's a birth thing.
Or someone's almost dying.
And at that moment, you realize
how much you love that person.
And again, you switch
over to the heart love,
which is different
than the brain love.
And there are also
two creation patterns.
There is a way of creating
through the brain, which
is polarized, where
you create something
and you get what you want, but
you get what you don't want.
It's polarized.
And there's also a way of
creating from the heart,
completely un-polarized.
You get exactly what you want.
And it does you no harm.
Every single thing that's in
the brain, any characteristic
that the brain has, the heart
will have that same thing.
The only difference is
one will be polarized,
and one will not be polarized.
There's also a vibration
that is in the heart.
So when you enter the heart,
the first thing you have to do
is you have to ask light.
By the way, after
you've done this
and you get the
whole procedure, then
when you read "Genesis"
in the first paragraph,
it will become pretty
clear, I think,
that every time you
go into the heart,
you're beginning
"Genesis" again.
You're moving straight through
the same set of procedures
that you do through. "Genesis."
Which in "Genesis,"
the very first thing
is, "Let there be light."
You begin through
the whole thing.
And you really are
entering into the creation
again every time you do it.
Eventually, though, you're
going to stay there.
So besides when you enter
in, you first ask for light.
If you get it, OK.
If you don't get it,
you still keep going.
And the very next thing
I'm going to ask you to do
is to feel the vibration
that's in there.
Because it feels like
everything is just vibrating.
Of course, you have
a heart beating.
So it would make sense, I guess.
But it's more than that.
In the Upanishads,
they say that is om.
That is the true om, is the
vibration that's in the heart.
And so you have
this sound that's
kind of just going on and on
and on and on all the time
it's in there.
And one of the first
things I'll ask you to do
is to feel that vibration
or hear the vibration
or sense it in
whatever way you can.
And then once you do
feel it or sense it,
I'm going to ask you for just
a moment, for maybe 45 seconds
or so, or something like that,
to actually use your voice
and try to duplicate what
you're sensing or you're hearing
or you're feeling.
There's a reason for that.
That vibration is a key--
it is the key-- for you
to return instantly.
All you have to do is feel
the vibration-- [SWOOSH]
--then you're right
back there again.
And so in the
beginning, we're going
to use different methods
of getting into there.
But once you're in
there and you know
where it is and you
know what it is,
if you can remember
the vibration
or feel the
vibration, you can use
that to pull yourself
directly back into it.
You look at a Kogi,
and they'll be sitting
there talking with words.
And then they'll just
close their eyes.
And they're
instantly back there.
And they'll be communicating
telepathically with everyone.
And so they go back and forth.
If they're with someone that
they know can't do telepathy,
they'll talk to you.
If they think you can,
they'll just talk to you
from within their heart.
Just recently when
I was there, I also
discovered that
depending on what level
you are on the mountains depends
on your evolutionary level.
So when you first enter
in at about 12,000 feet,
these people are
still using pendulums.
They're still learning.
Even though they might be old,
they're still kind of learning.
And you go up 1,000 feet more,
and it's a totally other--
they're all telepathic
from there on in.
And I remember I lived with
them for about two weeks.
And they gave me a grass hut.
And you sleep in a hammock
and all this kind of stuff.
And they even let me come
into the [INAUDIBLE], which
is a big building about this
big with four fires, one
for each of the four tribes.
And in there, it's
extremely intimate
the way they all lie
together and everything.
And people talk.
And they're sharing their
thoughts and their feelings
about everything
that's going on.
And after about a week or
so, they brought me up higher
into the mountains.
Anyway, there's a bridge
there that they seal off.
It goes across this big river.
And I actually was
on that bridge.
But they took me up
higher into the mountains
into this mountain that was
surrounded by mountains.
So it was like a mountain
and then the big mountains
all around it.
And I had to meet one of
the primary Mamos there.
And he was just sitting
on the edge of a cliff
and looking out over the cliff.
And he never turned around.
Because it doesn't matter to
them whether they're facing you
or not, because they can
communicate and see, as well.
And so I was there with this
Mamos that was 120 years old.
I could barely keep up with him.
He was basically at a slow run
at 12,000 feet to 13,500 feet.
And he's 120 years old.
And he looks like he's 60,
which is like a kid to them.
And so he was guarding me.
He was my guardian.
And he brought me up there.
And he made me sit on a rock.
When they have meetings,
they call them convenings.
They convene.
And they only convene when
they're on rocks, because rocks
are alive to them.
They're living people.
And that's where they go.
So we're on this
big rock formation
on the top of this
little mountain.
And the rock came like that.
And they came up higher.
And he made me sit with my
back up against this rock.
And he says, just find a
place that's comfortable.
So I did.
And then he sat
right next to me.
And the Mamos says
the other one's going
to call all the other Mamos.
And nobody did anything.
Actually, on the
way up there, we
had a Spanish guy that
was coming with us.
And he was on his cell phone.
I couldn't imagine
there would even
be towers there or something.
But he could talk
on his cell phone.
And the other man here,
he started laughing.
And he picks up a rock.
And he goes, I got a cell phone.
[LAUGHS]
But anyway, I'm sitting
back a little bit,
because they said the
lights were blinding.
They couldn't see me.
So I'm getting back here with
people on the side looking
at me in the lights.
And he says, well, the Mamos
are going to call people.
So he's still looking
out over the cliff
and never had turned around.
And so he doesn't move.
He doesn't do anything.
And in just a few minutes,
from every single peak
and from every single
place, all these people
started coming down the
side of the mountains.
And they're running down
these mountains, just
down these things that
you would probably think
you're going to slide down.
And they're just like goats.
And within a very short
time, 20 minutes or so,
there was about 50
Mamos standing around.
One started talking.
And they talked
for a little while.
But they're talking in Kogi.
And I can't understand it.
So my protector
here, he knows what
I'm thinking and
everything so he tells me,
he says, close your eyes.
So I close my eyes.
And like, poof,
he's in my vision.
He's in there,
perfectly in there.
And he goes, OK, can you see me?
Yeah, I can see you.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you.
He says, OK.
And he says, I'm going to
tell you what they're saying.
So he starts translating to
me what the Kogi are saying.
So I'm listening to what
they're saying by a translator
by a guy that's
sitting next to me.
And then about 10 minutes into
it, he's in there talking.
He goes-- [CHUCKLES]
and he says something.
And he starts laughing.
And pretty soon, he's sitting
here, but in the inner-vision,
he's rolling on the
ground laughing.
And I go, why are you laughing?
And he finally gains
composure inside this thing.
And he goes, well, I've
never spoken English before.
And it's such a weird language.
[LAUGHTER]
He says, it feels funny.
And so they can speak
any language at all.
In fact, it's pretty
astounding how fast
they can learn a language.
Science has figured out that we
have a place inside of us that
can learn any language
in the world in 10 days.
And I'm following
that one right now.
I wonder where that goes.
I want to learn a
language in ten days.
There's about 10 of
them I'd like to have.
So anyway, back to this
thing with the vibration.
It's important that
you can feel it.
Because if you can feel it,
you can make this transition
back and forth between
the world of the heart
and the world of the
brain really, really fast.
And the Upanishads says
that this vibration
is older than the universe
itself, whatever that means.
It's very, very similar--
the Great Pyramid in Egypt
was built to represent
human consciousness.
And within there-- it
comes from somewhere,
but I'm not exactly sure where.
But in the Great
Pyramid, there is
this almost identical, if
not identical, vibration
that's in the Great Pyramid.
How many people have been
to the Great Pyramid?
That is about 10 people.
How many people
felt that vibration
I'm talking about when
you were in there?
So it was about half of them.
Some people don't feel it.
But I don't know how.
Because when you're in
there, it feels like
everything's-- [BUZZING]
it feels like the air is
vibrating.
Everything is vibrating.
And that was the first thing
I felt when I went in there.
And I go, what is this?
Everything's moving.
But anyway, I just
wanted to bring that up,
because it's important.
Now, there is another thing
that's equally as important.
And that is in order
to get into the heart,
you must hold that vibration
before you get into the heart.
If you don't have that vibration
within you, you can't get in.
It will not let you in.
And the way you
get the vibration
before you get there is by
what we call the Unity Breath.
It's a meditation.
And so we will lead you
through this before we go.
But in essence,
what it is is you
must connect with the heart
of the world, with love.
You must love Mother Earth.
You love her.
And she sends her
love back to you.
And you feel it.
And when you do, you
connect with her.
And then without
breaking that, you
connect to the heart of the sun.
Really, by doing that,
you're connecting the heart
to all the rest, the
heart of the universe.
Different tribes do
it in different ways.
The Hopi do it by connecting
to the central sun.
They understand that.
And they connect directly
to the central sun.
And I learned this
through the Hindus
through Sri Yukteswar,
which is Yogananda's guru.
And he tells you to
connect to the grids
that around the Earth,
because those are connected
to all life everywhere, also.
It's a more sophisticated
way, in a way.
But almost all the
tribes I've ever
been with, they
connect to the sun.
And our star is connected
to all other stars.
And it goes on and on.
And everything's interconnected.
So you connect to the
sun, the heart of the sun.
You have to love it.
It's your divine mother
and your divine father.
And so you have to connect
to the divine mother.
And you're the divine child.
And you connect to
your divine father
through that heart by
sending love and feeling
his love come back.
And when it does, it
makes the holy trinity.
You have the divine
mother, divine father,
and you, the divine child.
And there's a love flow
that goes between the child
to the mother and father.
But the child must also be aware
of the love between the mother
and the father, that connection
that's going that way, too.
And so we'll lead
you through it.
But when you do that, it puts
a vibration in your spirit.
And that vibration
is the key that
opens the door that allows
you to enter into the heart.
Now, emotional trauma
could still stop you.
Because it's the pain level
because of emotional trauma
that stops you.
But that's something
I can't help.
But with or without, even
if you're totally clean
and you have no emotional
trauma and no problems,
if you don't have this
vibration, you can't get in.
And so what happens
very often-- and I've
seen this many, many, many, many
times-- is people come in here.
I lead them through it.
They get into their heart.
They got it.
They go back home.
And they can't ever do
it again, because they
don't think that this connecting
with the heart of the Earth
and the heart of the
sun is important.
And they don't do that.
And they keep trying to get in.
But you can't You have
to have this vibration.
Whether or not that vibration
is identical to the one that's
inside there, I'm not certain.
But if it isn't,
it's an overtone.
Or it's connected.
Or it's in harmony with it.
Or it is identical.
I'm not really sure.
It feels the same to me.
But I'm not positive.
So when we get to that place,
when we do the first one,
I will lead you carefully
through those steps.
And if you haven't
ever done it before,
it's pretty easy once
you understand it.
It's really easy to do.
But don't underestimate it
as just something that's
kind of a nice thing to do.
It's more than that.
Just as there are two emotional
bodies and two dream states
and two ways of
creating and all that,
the sacred space of the heart
is also divided into two areas.
And the HeartMath discovered
that generated from the heart
is the largest energy field
that the body creates.
The brain is small
compared with the heart.
This is 8 to 10 feet in
diameter and centered off-center
from the axis of your spine.
And right through the
center of the heart
is a toroidal field
that comes up and around
and comes back in, just like
the magnetic field of the Earth.
And there is one big one
and a smaller one inside.
Those proportions
are very important,
what they've discovered.
And they're identical
to what you see up here.
For those of you who've
studied the first two books,
you know that you're
looking at the five
platonic solids in here.
So if you see this cube-- look
at the hexagon that runs around
and the three lines that
run through the middle.
If you look at only those lines,
you see a cube on an edge view.
So you're looking at it
like-- this is the cube.
But you're looking
at it like that.
And so these lines and
these lines come together.
And they form three lines.
So does everybody see
what I'm talking about?
OK.
But then in here farther is
another one, another cube.
There's a cube within a cube.
And that's true
with all of them.
And here's the star
tetrahedron in here.
And then if you
go inside smaller,
there's a smaller star
tetrahedron inside of there.
And it goes through all
the five platonic solids.
Each one has a big
one and a little one.
And it's kind of related to
the male and female thing,
where males are bigger
and females are smaller.
But there is always
this relationship.
And so it's not only
in sacred geometry,
but it's also in the actual
way that the heart configures
the original place of creation.
So when you enter
into your heart space,
you always enter into
the external space first.
So when you first walk in
or move into that space,
you're not in the sacred space.
It is all sacred.
But they call this
little, tiny place-- well,
the Upanishads keep
referring to it
as just the tiny
space of the heart.
But it's more sacred.
And so you first enter
into the external space,
which has relative to
it a size relationship.
But once you're in
that external space,
that external space can
appear to you as infinite.
It can actually appear to you as
the universe itself, and very,
very, very often will.
But you have to learn how
to find the tiny space.
And when I say tiny,
it's usually not
much bigger around than this.
It's usually a very small,
little place somewhere.
However, its appearance
could be anything.
It could be a cave.
It could be a little house.
It could be a room.
It could be a spaceship.
It could be anything at all.
It could be anything.
It could be a temple.
But it is always really
small relative to the big one
outside.
This is also a means
of getting into it.
This was a problem
I was confronted
with after the Kogi taught
me all these things.
There was a point
where they didn't think
that we could be taught this.
And they really only
wanted me to work
with animals in the beginning.
So I worked with only
animals in the first part,
with horses and all
kinds of animals.
After a while, it got
pretty exciting, really.
Because I could just
walk into a middle of a--
there'd be a bunch
of deer in a thing.
And usually when you
start to walk toward deer,
they all run away.
But when you're in
your heart space,
you're not seen as a threat.
They feel the vibration.
They just look at you and
just keep right on eating.
It's like a bird landing
on their back or something.
They don't even mind.
And I would walk
right up to them
and stand there and pet
them and everything else.
And they would just
keep right on eating.
I wouldn't even disturb them.
And so I could see that
it was biofeedback.
I could see that this was true.
They also told me the
more wild they are,
the easier it is to do this.
So at this point, I
like being out where
there are lots of wild animals.
I prefer it.
It's hard to explain.
I remember one time
I was in Paraguay.
And I was just into this whole
thing with animals and stuff.
And somebody says,
well, could you show us?
And so I went out.
But they don't have
any animals anywhere.
There aren't even cows there.
I couldn't find anything
hardly, at least where
I was in Paraguay.
There was just nothing.
And I was sitting there.
And this big frog-- this
frog was like that big.
[JUMPING SOUNDS] I suppose
he went, ah, animal.
And I just dropped
into the heart.
And this little
sound came out of me.
And the frog went--
[JUMPING SOUNDS] Then he went--
[QUICK JUMPING SOUNDS] --right
up to me and looked up at me.
And I got down really low.
And I was right down like this
and looking into its eyes.
And we started making sounds
together and all this stuff.
And these people
were watching me
And then I was at a break.
And I had to go back.
And I said, don't go away.
I'll be right back.
And it says, OK.
And I go in there.
And there were two
or three hours.
I come back, and it's
still sitting there.
[LAUGHS] Hadn't moved.
And really, it changes your
relationship to all of life.
It just completely changes it.
Remember in the Bible when it
talks about the Tower of Babel.
It states clearly that
before the Tower of Babel,
there was one
language in the world.
And that one language we
could talk to each other with.
And we could speak
with the animals
with this same language.
And I'm convinced that
this is what it is.
You can speak to any lifeform.
And even ETs understand
this language.
It's a language that
comes from the heart.
The Kogi say it's a
language that has no words.
In other words, it's a sound
that does not mean something.
It's a sound that
creates an image in you.
And that's what they mean.
And so the same sound can
create many different images,
depending on what your
heart is putting with it.
And for those of you that know
Pleiadians, it is Pleiadians.
Pleiadians people use that
language when they talk.
And it is how they
communicate with each other.
Anyway, slowly getting there.
But you need to know
all these little things.
Otherwise, when we
say, OK, let's do
it, you're going to
go, let's do what?
Where are we going?
The other thing is that this
is a mental concept and idea.
But it's really true.
You can't be in your
heart-- with the way
that we have fixed
ourselves into the brain
and seeing through
these two eyes,
if you're going to
be in your heart,
you have to break
that connection.
You have to leave it.
Later, you can come back.
And we'll talk about this
when we get into it here.
Once you get into the heart, you
can reestablish the connection
in a different way
from your brain,
where you could be in your
heart and see from your brain.
But initially, you can't.
Initially, you have to sever
the connection with the brain.
You literally have to
let go of it and move.
There's a movement.
There's an actual
physical movement
that you have to make in
order to get to your heart.
And that movement has to
do with spirit itself.
Most people think that
they are their bodies.
But you're not your body.
Your body is more like
a coat you put on.
And spirit can drop that body
and take another body anytime
it wants to.
You're not this.
You're separate from that.
And I think almost everybody
here understands that.
But a lot of people in the
world don't understand that.
They think they are their body.
Spirit-- just
talking about spirit
itself-- there's great spirit.
There's one spirit that
moves through all life
everywhere, of which we are
intimately connected to.
But great spirit has also
done all kinds of things
to create different
kinds of experiences.
And so our spirit,
really, we can think of it
as coming out like a
piece of the great spirit.
It's much more than that.
But we are actually great
spirit experiencing humanness.
But spirit has an
ability that isn't quite
understood here on Earth.
And that is that spirit can
either be infinite or finite.
Literally, you can be
the entire universe
on all levels of existence
simultaneously now.
And there are lots of
people that have done that
and are doing it at this moment.
And then a spirit
can also be finite.
It could be a piece of it.
It could be a galaxy or a
planet or a sun or an animal
or a human being or an
atom or anything else.
When it's infinite,
it has no center.
There's no place that you
could say, this is the center,
because it's everywhere.
But the moment it chooses
to become finite, whatever
it is-- if it's a
planet, then the center
is in the exact center.
If it's a human being--
it's interesting.
Human beings are able to
move their center around.
And so we can go through
this in a moment.
Maybe we will.
Most people are centered
in their pineal chakra.
But there are other
possibilities.
You could also be
centered in your heart.
You could be centered
in your liver.
Carlos Castaneda is centered
over his right shoulder,
I believe it is, out
here, about that far away,
not even in his body.
A lot of people are centered
out here in front of themselves.
And they know this.
So just for example,
how many people
know that they're centered
somewhere not in their body?
Anybody?
One-- only one person?
Where are you centered.
>>It varies.
>>It varies?
You move it around?
>>It fluctuates.
It seems that it
definitely zips in and out.
>>Where are you now?
>>I'm here.
I'm definitely cognizant.
One thing that definitely
struck a chord with me
just now is you said there
could be one intelligence
in multiple people.
And sometimes I look
at myself almost
like a LimeWire or
a Napster program,
where multiple things might
be able to utilize me.
>>Yeah.
Well, yeah, there
are whole planets
where every single
person on that planet
is a cell in a larger
consciousness, just
the same way that we
have cells in our body
and they're all connected
together to create us.
And all of us are connected
on other levels of existence
with other parts of ourselves.
But I'm really only
referring right now
to just this body and
where they're centered.
In the last workshop, I had
about seven or eight people
that were centered in different
places around their bodies.
And then when you
go inside the body
and see where you're centered--
>>Yeah.
>>OK.
Inside the body--
is anybody centered
in some other place other
than the heart or the brain?
Oh, you guys are boring.
[LAUGHTER]
>>I'm not really sure.
But when I first
started to wake up,
it's like I would
leave my brain.
And I would think, but I
would be somewhere else.
It's almost like I would come
out here and be something
of an observer of myself.
Is that what you're
talking about?
Because I really
couldn't identify--
I was actually going
to ask you about it.
Where am I going when I--
something just shifts.
I'm not looking through
my eyes anymore.
I'm out here.
>>Well, there's really a
near infinite possi-- well,
I guess it actually
is mathematically
infinite of where you could be.
Usually, though, you're always
inside of your Merkaba field.
Which, the whole Merkaba
field is just a giant sphere.
You may see the stuff
inside of it and everything.
But it's just a huge
sphere, about 55 or 60 feet
in diameter.
And usually when
people are centered,
they're inside that
sphere somewhere.
>>Is it something
that you can look at?
And can you see where they are?
>>No.
That's really-- I don't know
if you could perceive that.
I guess you could somehow.
I don't know how to do it.
I just know that
after talking to lots
and lots and lots
of people, I know
that they're not all centered.
I know that most people are
centered in their heads.
And that's the
sensation, is that you're
looking out of your eyes.
And this is more going on
here than anywhere else.
And maybe when you're in
sexual energy, it's different.
Your attention changes.
And your centering
changes a lot on that.
It depends on your chakra system
and where you're focused, too.
A lot of things.
But anyway, I don't
think I'm going
to be able to get to what I'm
really trying to say here.
But anyway, I'll just state it.
When your finite,
you have a center.
And that center can
be moved around.
And in just a little
bit, we're going
to move your center around.
You maybe never moved
your center around before.
But any minute, it's
going to happen.
We're going to do some
exercises where you're going
to move your center around.
Once you start moving
your center around,
it's pretty interesting.
Because your view of
the reality can change.
And when it does change,
you can start doing things
that you normally wouldn't
allow yourself to do.
I'm going to get
about probably--
I usually do-- about 30%
of the people in here
will be able to see with
their hands pretty soon.
You'll actually be able to look
around the room with your hand
as soon as you move
your center off.
The sound of water is also
always connected to the heart.
There are certain things that
are in the heart consistently.
And one of them is
water, and usually moving
water or deep pools of water
that, when you dive into it,
you come out into other
worlds and things like this.
And so you have
the sound of water.
And the other thing that
is consistent-- in fact,
you really can't escape
it-- and that is the stars.
You might wake up
and you look in
and you find that the
external place of your heart
is a temple, say, a pyramid.
And there are rooms in there.
So you're going through
all these different rooms.
And you're indoors all
the time when you're
going through your heart space.
But then you'll come over
and you'll see a window.
You'll go over to the window.
And poof, there are the stars.
The stars are
always in the heart.
The Upanishad, those 108 people,
when you read each one of them,
almost every one of
them talks about how
there are stars in the heart.
In fact, right after I
wrote "Living in the Heart"
and I sent it to my publisher,
the very next day somebody
sent me this, which
is from the-- I
don't know if I can say
this right-- Chandogya.
And there are
different Upanishads.
There are 108 people.
But a lot of them
have eliminated that
and brought it down
to a smaller number.
They just picked out the
best ones is what they did.
And so there are different
translations of it.
But this is what it says.
And this was in the book.
But most people read it and
don't really think about it.
So I'm going to say it again.
It says, if someone
says to you, quote,
"In the fortified city
of the imperishable--
our body-- there is a lotus.
And in this lotus, a tiny space.
What does it contain that one
should desire to know it?"
You must reply, "As vast
as this space without
is, the tiny space
within your heart,
heaven and Earth
are found in it--
fire and air, sun
and moon, lightning,
and the constellations."
Whatever belongs
to you here below
and all that
doesn't, all this is
gathered in that tiny
space within your heart.
This is 5,000 or
6,000 years old.
And it'll be just as true
today as it was then.
The stars were originally
created in your heart first.
And this is one of
the things we're going
to be talking about later.
And later, we're transferred
to the external world.
And they are not what you
think, which I've been saying.
They're an image, a
dream state image,
created by the
heart, which was then
transferred to the brain in
a very specific way, which
we'll go into later.
And so now, we're
living it and believing
it's real, when, really,
it's just an image.
It's just consciousness itself.
But you will find the
same stars in your heart
that you will find
external to the Earth.
And I've learned
recently-- because I've now
connected with another
intelligence inside the Earth
that I never knew was
there-- and they took me
into the center of the Earth.
When you enter into the
very center of the Earth,
it is external.
It's the same.
It's just infinite space,
and the same stars,
exactly the same
ones, that are there.
It's changed my whole view of
everything I thought was real.
And now that I understand
it and I understand
the geometries of
how this is working
and everything else like
that, it makes so much sense.
It really does.
If you take a golden
mean rectangle
and you take the shorter edge
and come over here and make
a square out of it,
what's left over
is another golden
mean rectangle.
Right?
We all know this,
or most of us do.
And so then if you
take the shorter edge
and make another square
out of it, what's left over
is another golden
mean rectangle.
And that creates a spiral that
goes in and in and in and in
forever.
It never ends.
And so it's constantly
getting littler and littler
and littler and littler.
But where you started from,
which is where you are now--
we're in between the
microcosm and the macrocosm.
And so we start
with this triangle.
And you can see it goes forever.
Well, it'll go
out the other way.
That triangle, if you
take the longer edge
and make a square
out of it, you have
another golden mean
rectangle that's bigger.
And it keeps going out.
And then you can just
keep doing that forever.
And now that same spiral
that went in forever
will now spiral
outwards forever,
getting bigger and
bigger and bigger,
this one getting infinitely
big, the other one
getting infinitely small.
And that is the
nature of our reality.
You can go inside the moon, any
star, any galaxy, the Earth,
or anywhere else.
And when you go to the center,
you'll be in the same stars
that you were at externally.
So if you have a sphere,
the sphere is the surface.
That is the size that is
in between the macrocosm
and the microcosm.
Everything external
here, that's all stars.
But you go in the middle--
it's all stars again.
And science will
eventually-- right now
they're beginning
to understand this.
And this is changing our
entire view of everything.
When science really does
understand that one thing,
then spirituality
and science will
begin to merge and become one.
Because that will happen.
It always happens.
Every planet
eventually comes to--
their scientific
understanding of everything
and their spiritual
merge at one point.
And when that happens,
they're no longer
whatever level they were at.
They become aware.
That's when they
first really, truly
become aware of what is
actually happening in the world.
We're just looking at a
total illusion right now.
Science is.
And so are we, spiritually,
on a lot of levels.
We're not quite clear
on what is happening.
I've got to take a time check.
Oh, we don't have any time.
OK.
So I only have just
another few minutes.
Oh, it's perfect.
It's perfect.
OK.
I couldn't have done this
any better if I'd have tried.
Now, this is where we start
going into the sensory aspect
of things.
So I pretty much told
you everything you
need to know on a mental level.
Now we need to start doing it
on a physical, tactile level
and emotional level.
So I think we can just stop
right here and go to lunch.
And we'll come back at 2:30.
And when we do,
we're going to-- have
you ever danced in the dark?
We're going to do dancing
with your blindfolds on.